# **Udacity Data Engineer Project - Data Lakes with Spark**

Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and needs to move their data warehouse to a data lake. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

Building an ETL pipeline that extracts data from S3, processes them using Spark, and loads the data back into S3 as a set of dimensional tables. This will allow analytics teams to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to.

## Project Components

Use Spark and data lakes to build an ETL pipeline for a data lake hosted on S3. Load data from S3, process the data into analytics tables using Spark, and load them back into S3. Deploy this Spark process on a cluster using AWS.

### Song Dataset

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

```
song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json
```

### Log Dataset

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.
```
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json
```
 
## Use
 
- Add the required the credentials to the dl.cfg file.
- In the terminal, execute the following to build the database and populate the tables : 

```sh
python etl.py
```
